# Top 14 Vulnerability Scanners for Cybersecurity Professionals

## 1. Acunetix

[Acunetix](https://www.acunetix.com/) is a
 web vulnerability scanner that features advanced crawling technology to
 find vulnerabilities to search every type of web page—even those that 
are password protected.

## 2. beSECURE

[beSECURE](https://www.beyondsecurity.com/products/besecure?__hstc=220751815.9d5a72bfc143db216806fe19ec4b7f05.1754655672939.1754655672939.1754655672939.1&__hssc=220751815.1.1754655672940&__hsfp=1529073914)
 is a self-service vulnerability scanner from Beyond Security that can 
be deployed on-premise, in the cloud, or in hybrid environments. This 
solution offers both network and web application scanning and has a 
vulnerability database that is updated daily. BeSECURE focuses on 
efficiency and accuracy. Set up is simple and users can get started in 
minutes with a practical interface and automation capabilities. 
Additionally, with patented technology, scans have near-zero false 
positives.

## 3. Burp Suite

[Burp Suite](https://portswigger.net/burp/enterprise)
 is a web vulnerability scanner that is frequently updated, and 
integrates with bug tracking systems like Jira for simple ticket 
generation.

## 4. GFI Languard

[GFI Languard](https://www.gfi.com/products-and-solutions/network-security-solutions/gfi-languard)
 is a network and web application vulnerability scanner that can 
automatically deploy patches across multiple operating systems, 
third-party applications, and web browsers.

## 5. Fortra Vulnerability Management

[Fortra VM](https://www.fortra.com/products/fortra-vulnerability-management?__hstc=220751815.9d5a72bfc143db216806fe19ec4b7f05.1754655672939.1754655672939.1754655672939.1&__hssc=220751815.1.1754655672940&__hsfp=1529073914) is a patented network vulnerability scanner that is a part of [a cloud-native SaaS security platform](https://www.fortra.com/industry/saas?__hstc=220751815.9d5a72bfc143db216806fe19ec4b7f05.1754655672939.1754655672939.1754655672939.1&__hssc=220751815.1.1754655672940&__hsfp=1529073914). This security platform also offers web application scanning as well as other [vulnerability management](https://www.coresecurity.com/vulnerability-management-program)
 and threat assessment technology. Fortra VM focuses on accurate and 
accessible risk assessment, with features like Security GPA®, a informed
 metric that takes into account both the network security posture rating
 and the business risk associated with discovered vulnerabilities. Risk 
ratings are also tailored to an environment with risk rating based on 
the device’s criticality to the organization’s specific infrastructure.

## 6. Nessus

[Nessus](https://www.tenable.com/products/nessus)
 is one of the most popular vulnerability scanners, with over two 
million downloads across the globe. Additionally, Nessus provides 
comprehensive coverage, scanning for over 59,000 CVEs.

## 7. Nexpose

[Nexpose](https://www.rapid7.com/products/nexpose/)
 by Rapid7 collects data in real-time in order to constantly provide a 
live view of an organization’s shifting network. Since the CVSS risk 
score scale is 1-10, this vulnerability scanner developed its own risk 
score scale of 1-1000 in order to provide more nuance. It takes factors 
like vulnerability age and public exploits/malware kits into account.

## 8. Nmap

[Nmap](https://nmap.org/) is an open 
source, free security scanner that is also used by organizations for 
network discovery, inventory, managing service upgrade schedules, and 
monitoring host or service uptime.

## 9. OpenVAS

[OpenVAS](https://www.openvas.org/) is an 
open source vulnerability scanner maintained by Greenbone Networks. The 
scanner also has a regularly updated community feed, which includes over
 50,000 vulnerability tests.

## 10. Qualys Guard

[Qualys Cloud Platform](https://www.qualys.com/cloud-platform/)
 is a hub for Qualys’ IT, security, and compliance cloud apps. It 
features a robust a vulnerability scanner that helps centralize 
vulnerability management.

## 11. Qualys Web Application Scanner

[Qualys Web Application Scanner](https://www.qualys.com/apps/web-app-scanning/)
 is a cloud-based application that both finds official and “unofficial” 
apps throughout an environment, and also detects OWASP top ten risks, 
along with other web application vulnerabilities.

## 12. SAINT

[SAINT’s Security Suite](https://www.carson-saint.com/vulnerability-management/?srsltid=AfmBOoo_wHLQCqKoU-xu7wAiKPNU-hDfTVis1Kv8TsbIy_Gsa7EXMDkY)
 is a holistic scanner that identifies all of the critical assets in an 
environment, creating asset tags and tracking them to provide faster 
remediation for the highest priority assets.

## 13. Tenable

[Teneble.sc](https://www.tenable.com/products/tenable-sc) and [Teneble.io](https://www.tenable.com/products/tenable-io)
 provide network and web vulnerability assessments using Nessus 
technology. They use Predictive Prioritization, which combines 
vulnerability data, threat intelligence and data science to create a 
detailed risk score.

## 14. Tripwire IP360

[Tripwire IP360](https://www.tripwire.com/products/tripwire-ip360?__hstc=220751815.9d5a72bfc143db216806fe19ec4b7f05.1754655672939.1754655672939.1754655672939.1&__hssc=220751815.1.1754655672940&__hsfp=1529073914)
 is a scalable vulnerability scanner that can scan everything in an 
organization’s  environment, including previously-undetected assets 
using both agentless and agent-based scans.